Picture-in-Picture API - template/layout fixes (#44479)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/picture-in-picture_api/index.md

{{DefaultAPISidebar("Picture-in-Picture API")}}

The **Picture-in-Picture API** enables websites to create a floating, always-on-top video window.
This allows users to continue consuming media while they interact with other sites or applications on their device.

> [!NOTE]
> The [Document Picture-in-Picture API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Picture-in-Picture_API) extends the Picture-in-Picture API to allow the always-on-top window to be populated with _any_ arbitrary HTML content, not just a video.

> ## Concepts

Author: The top section here is a minimal addition to add a concepts section matching the template. The following sections are pulled up from lower down, but have the same content.

This is the only new stuff, which most needs to be looked at.

The **Picture-in-Picture API** enables websites to create a floating, always-on-top video window.
This allows users to continue consuming media while they interact with other sites or applications on their device.

> [!NOTE]
> You can run code when the always-on-top window is programmatically opened, using the {{domxref("HTMLVideoElement.enterpictureinpicture_event", "enterpictureinpicture")}} event. However, this event isn't fired when the browser itself (rather than your code) triggers moving content into the always-on-top window. This can occur, for example, due to the content being occluded, by the displayed tab being switched, or by the user selecting a "picture-in-picture" option from a video's context menu or the browser chrome.
>
> To run code in response to such actions, set up a media session action handler using {{domxref("MediaSession.setActionHandler()")}} with a `type` of `enterpictureinpicture`.

> [!NOTE]
> The [Document Picture-in-Picture API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Picture-in-Picture_API) extends the Picture-in-Picture API to allow the always-on-top window to be populated with _any_ arbitrary HTML content, not just a video.

> ## Concepts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Concepts and usage
```

Maybe this? To stay closer to the template.

It is often helpful to play video in a separate window to the rest of your website, allowing you to continue to watch while keeping associated app content in view, or even to view some other website.
You could achieve this by just opening a regular new browser window, but this has two major issues:

1. You have to handle sharing of state information between the two windows.
2. The additional app window doesn't always stay on top, and can therefore get hidden by other windows.

> One way to solve these problems is to use [Picture-in-Picture API for `<video>`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Picture-in-Picture_API), which manages most of the complexity of placing a single {{htmlelement("video")}} element into a separate window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One way to solve these problems is to use [Picture-in-Picture API for `<video>`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Picture-in-Picture_API), which manages most of the complexity of placing a single {{htmlelement("video")}} element into a separate window.
```

Otherwise, it links to itself, which is confusing.

Author: You're right this is a problem, but the point of this doc is to introduce THIS API after stating the problem.

```suggestion
The Picture-in-Picture API for `<video>` solves these problems, managing most of the complexity of placing a single {{htmlelement("video")}} element into a separate always-on-top window.
```

> ### Adding Controls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Adding controls
```
